audit-trail(add): iam authentication methods (#5589)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/audit-trail/reference-content/iam-authentication-logs.mdx

---
title: IAM authentication logs in Audit Trail

> description: Discover which IAM events are logged in Audit Trail and what they mean.

Reviewer: IAM authentication events

> title: IAM authentication logs in Audit Trail
> description: Discover which IAM events are logged in Audit Trail and what they mean.

Author: ```suggestion
title: IAM authentication events in Audit Trail
description: Discover which IAM events are logged in Audit Trail and what they mean.
```

tags: audit-trail iam-authentication iam-logs authentication-logs
dates:
  validation: 2025-09-30
  posted: 2025-09-30
---

> This page explains how to differentiate IAM member authentication methods and understand and how they appear in Audit Trail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page explains how to differentiate IAM members authentication methods and understand and how they appear in Audit Trail.
```

This page only covers **Unauthenticated API** methods that actually perform and/or complete an authentication step.

## Authentication code login

This flow allows a user to log in using an **authentication code** sent via email.

- `InitiateMagicCodeLogin`
  Sends the user an email containing a 6-digit authentication code.

- `CreateMagicCodeLogin`
  Authenticates the user based on their username and the 6-digit authentication codee received.

If multifactor authentication (MFA) is required, the flow proceeds to `CheckLoginMFAOTP`. Otherwise, the flow redirects to `CommitLogin`.

## Password login

> This is the standard login method using a username and password.

Author: ```suggestion
This method allows you to authenticate using a username and password.
```

- `CreatePasswordLogin`
  Authenticates the user with their username and password.

If MFA is required, the system verifies it through `CheckLoginMFAOTP`. If not, the flow continues directly to `CommitLogin`.

## OAuth2 login

This flow is based on external OAuth2 authentication providers.

- `InitiateOAuth2Login`
  Redirects the user to the external OAuth2 provider for authentication.

- `CreateOAuth2Login`
  Finalizes authentication once the OAuth2 provider confirms the user identity.

As with the other methods, if MFA is required, `CheckLoginMFAOTP` is triggered before committing the login. Otherwise, the flow continues to `CommitLogin`.

## SAML login

This flow integrates with **SAML (Security Assertion Markup Language)** for Single Sign-On (SSO).
It allows you to set up identity federation on your Organization and provide your teams with secure access to their accounts via an Identity Provider (IdP).

> - `InitiateSamlLogin`**`

Author: Nope, good catch!
